[music plays]
Tony: I have a lot of experience
in bicycle repair.
When I was actually 13 years old,
it was my first job
repairing bikes in Ohio.
So I did it for a year or two,
and then was fired
and I was fired because I would
often blow off work and to go a party
and hang out with friends.
So they fired me.
Tony: I am Tony, Tony Giordano.
I am completely blind and deaf.
Many years ago,
I was a world traveler.
My vision was fine.
I would travel the world.
I worked at Amato’s.
So let's say a vehicle was in an accident.
I'd remove the parts
that were damaged in the collision,
make the necessary repairs, replace parts.
I would test drive it, make sure
everything worked properly.
I was also a welder
for more than 30 years.
I would do a lot of welding.
I would be welding for 8 hours
a day, every day
until my left eye
started losing vision in 2014.
I went through several exams
and evaluations, at which point
they told me the blurriness in my left
eye will eventually happen to my right eye as well.
I asked the doctor,
“Am I going to become blind?”
At which the doctor said, “Yes, absolutely.”
I was shocked. I didn't know what to do
[music plays]
[mechanical sounds]
In November of 2018,
my right eye lost all of its vision
and I’d already lost all
the vision in my left eye.
My roommate actually
called my family for me.
They flew out to help me.
They packed up everything
and then flew me over to North Carolina
to live with my brother for a while.
I went home and I couldn't work
anymore. I applied for disability.
I was sad.
I was frustrated with
all of my vision problems.
Everything was incredibly
frustrating for me.
I was having to rely so much on my family
to help me with everything.
[drilling sound]
You know, where I live it’s very rural.
There's lots of mountains and hills.
It's a really small community.
There're not many deaf people there.
There's not many blind people there.
They didn't know about how to communicate
with Blind and Deaf people.
I started learning basic braille
and it was a struggle.
I was not good at it.
I would practice day after day
and it was still quite difficult for me.
My sister called the North Carolina
State for the blind and deaf,
and that representative’s
name was Savannah.
Savannah came to visit
and we did some tactile
sign language together.
I had never used tactile
sign language prior to that,
and it was awkward at first.
I was fumbling to get the information.
She recommended that I go to HKNC in New York.
She said they could help me tremendously.
I’d be able to learn braille,
I'd be able to learn about cooking,
about how to use a cane for mobility,
at which point I then decided I would
go to the Helen Keller National Center.
[music plays]
I love arts. I'm really great at it.
When I had vision, you know,
I used to make projects here and there,
but now without vision,
how do I make various
artistic designs, you know,
and make sure
everything is symmetrical?
Another class I took was on mobility.
I really trained a lot in mobility
to make sure that I wouldn't
bump my face on any objects nearby.
I also took a cooking class
in the independent living department
[music plays]
My instructor is also blind and deaf.
I've learned a lot in all of my classes.
I'm not a 100% independent.
I'm still working on enhancing
my skills and learning more.
[indistinct chatter]
My vocational instructor and I
went to work at the bike co-op.
The manager's name is Paul
and the two of us could not communicate.
I did have with me my communication cards,
which I would show him.
He would read.
He would flip through.
But communication was tough.
Paul looked around and found an old bike.
He put that old bike up on a bike stand
and told me that there was an issue
with the brakes.
So I went about cranking the bike.
Specifically looking at the gears.
I would shift the gears one by one
to check how the bike was moving.
And with that I noticed
there was something not right.
Interpreter: It’s In bad shape. And the reason
I know is because I cranked it
and it wasn't turning right.
Both breaks should be connected
Tony: Paul checked out the bike
and gave me a thumbs down.
Paul: Basically I had to push the other guy aside
because it was a person, an intermediary,
and I took Tony's hands and I put them
where I wanted them to be.
And then it was like
the light bulb came on.
He goes, “Oh, yeah, okay, I get it.”
Tony: I was able to identify the problem.
I made the necessary repairs.
I connected the cables,
I tested the brakes
and the bike ran very well.
When I was done, I called
Paul over, at which point
he tested the bike and did an inspection
and said that everything was great.
He gave me a thumbs up,
which I felt tactilely, and I knew
I had passed his test.
[music plays]
Paul: Between the two of us, like you saw,
we're basically talking bike.
So he doesn’t need to speak
or see or anything
He caught right on, you know,
because there was desire to do it.
And the desire is the big thing.
You know, so, he's good to go.
I mean, he fixes bikes.
Tony: Looking back, all of the frustration
I previously had thinking about
how I had to rely on others all the time
and how emotional that made me.
I've now been able to put that aside.
I've been able to gain independence.
I still continue learning
in all areas in braille.
I definitely want to
get better in braille.
I want to learn more.
I want to really understand it.
Even with mobility,
you know how to how to get out
in case of an emergency and stairs.
There's so much more I want to learn.
[music ends]